# Programmer guide

This is a guide for anyone looking to dig into how this piece of software is made.

## Table of Contents
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation](#installation)
- [Contributing](#contributing)

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Download Visual Studio with support for .NET Framework 4.7.2

### Installation

Follow these steps to set up and run the project on your local machine:

1. Clone the project onto your local machine `git clone https://github.com/dynamo58/modified-gol.git`.
2. Open the solution file `new.sln` in Visual Studio.
3. Download the `Newtonsoft.json` and the `AnimatedGif` packages, preferably with NuGet.
4. Press F5 or click the "Start" button to run the application.

## Usage

All of the actual C# code is location in the `new` subfolder. There are some autogenerated files by Visual Studio for some reason, the only files that should really be tampered with are:
- `Simulation.cs`
    - This is core of the program; includes all of the inner workings of how the simulation works.
- `MainWindow.cs`
    - Handles how the UI interacts with the simulation itself.
- `Organism.cs`
    - Describes each of the cells within the simulation.
- `Program.cs`
    - Includes Visual Studio bloat boilerplate; but also includes miscellaneous helper function via the `Utils` class

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! If you'd like to contribute to this project, please follow these steps:

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch for your feature or bug fix.
3. Make your changes and commit them with clear and concise messages.
4. Push your changes to your fork.
5. Open a pull request and describe your changes.

The pull request should have the basic following outline
1. WHY
2. WHAT
3. HOW

For any other questions or inquiries, open an issue.
